README.md, before:

# ![Moonbeam](media/moonbeam-cover.jpg)

# ⚠️ Moonbeam new github organization ⚠️

Moonbeam repository has been migrated from purestake to the Moonbeam Foundation organization:  
https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam

Github references/cloning as well as cargo build will keep working as expected. 
However, it is recommended to update those references once the migration is complete.

# Information

![Tests](https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/workflows/Build/badge.svg)

**An Ethereum compatible [Parachain](https://polkadot.network/technology/) built with [Substrate](https://substrate.dev).**

👉 _Discover the Moonbeam project at [moonbeam.network](https://moonbeam.network)._<br>
👉 _Learn to [use the Moonbeam network](https://docs.moonbeam.network/) with our technical docs._<br>
👉 _Reference our [crate-level docs (rustdocs)](https://moonbeam-foundation.github.io/moonbeam) to contribute._

## Run an alphanet node with Docker

Docker images are published for every tagged release. Learn more with `moonbeam --help`.

```bash
# Join the public testnet
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --chain alphanet
```

You can find more detailed instructions to [run a full node in our TestNet](https://docs.moonbeam.network/node-operators/networks/run-a-node/overview/)

## Run a local development node with Docker

Developers who are building dApps to run on moonbeam, may want a lightweight node to work with
locally. You can quickly set up a single node without a relay chain backing it using the development service.

```bash
# Run a dev service node
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --dev
```

For more information, see our detailed instructions to [run a development node](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/networks/moonbeam-dev/)

### Sealing options

The above command will start the node in instant seal mode. It creates a block when a transaction arrives, similar to Ganache's auto-mine. You can also choose to author blocks at a regular interval, or control authoring manually through the RPC.

```bash
# Author a block every 6 seconds.
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --dev --sealing 6000

# Manually control the block authorship and finality
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --dev --sealing manual
```

### Prefunded Development Addresses

Running Moonbeam in development mode will pre-fund several well-known addresses that (mostly) contain the letters "th" in their names to remind you that they are for ethereum-compatible usage. These addresses are derived from
Substrate's canonical mnemonic: `bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk`

```
# Alith:
- Address: 0xf24FF3a9CF04c71Dbc94D0b566f7A27B94566cac
- PrivKey: 0x5fb92d6e98884f76de468fa3f6278f8807c48bebc13595d45af5bdc4da702133

# Baltathar:
- Address: 0x3Cd0A705a2DC65e5b1E1205896BaA2be8A07c6e0
- PrivKey: 0x8075991ce870b93a8870eca0c0f91913d12f47948ca0fd25b49c6fa7cdbeee8b

# Charleth:
- Address: 0x798d4Ba9baf0064Ec19eB4F0a1a45785ae9D6DFc
- PrivKey: 0x0b6e18cafb6ed99687ec547bd28139cafdd2bffe70e6b688025de6b445aa5c5b

# Dorothy:
- Address: 0x773539d4Ac0e786233D90A233654ccEE26a613D9
- PrivKey: 0x39539ab1876910bbf3a223d84a29e28f1cb4e2e456503e7e91ed39b2e7223d68

# Ethan:
- Address: 0xFf64d3F6efE2317EE2807d223a0Bdc4c0c49dfDB
- PrivKey: 0x7dce9bc8babb68fec1409be38c8e1a52650206a7ed90ff956ae8a6d15eeaaef4

# Faith:
- Address: 0xC0F0f4ab324C46e55D02D0033343B4Be8A55532d
- PrivKey: 0xb9d2ea9a615f3165812e8d44de0d24da9bbd164b65c4f0573e1ce2c8dbd9c8df

# Goliath:
- Address: 0x7BF369283338E12C90514468aa3868A551AB2929
- PrivKey: 0x96b8a38e12e1a31dee1eab2fffdf9d9990045f5b37e44d8cc27766ef294acf18

# Heath:
- Address: 0x931f3600a299fd9B24cEfB3BfF79388D19804BeA
- PrivKey: 0x0d6dcaaef49272a5411896be8ad16c01c35d6f8c18873387b71fbc734759b0ab

# Ida:
- Address: 0xC41C5F1123ECCd5ce233578B2e7ebd5693869d73
- PrivKey: 0x4c42532034540267bf568198ccec4cb822a025da542861fcb146a5fab6433ff8

# Judith:
- Address: 0x2898FE7a42Be376C8BC7AF536A940F7Fd5aDd423
- PrivKey: 0x94c49300a58d576011096bcb006aa06f5a91b34b4383891e8029c21dc39fbb8b
```

Additionally, the prefunded default account for testing purposes is as follows:

```
# Gerald:
- Address: 0x6Be02d1d3665660d22FF9624b7BE0551ee1Ac91b
- PrivKey: 0x99b3c12287537e38c90a9219d4cb074a89a16e9cdb20bf85728ebd97c343e342
```

## Build the Moonbeam Node

To build Moonbeam, a proper Substrate development environment is required. If you're new to working with Substrate-based blockchains, consider starting with the [Getting Started with a Moonbeam Development Node](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/networks/moonbeam-dev/) documentation.

If you need a refresher setting up your Substrate environment, see [Substrate's Getting Started Guide](https://substrate.dev/docs/en/knowledgebase/getting-started/).

Please note that cloning the master branch might result in an unstable build. If you want a stable version, check out the [latest releases](https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/releases).

```bash
# Fetch the code
git clone https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam
cd moonbeam

# Build the node (The first build will be long (~30min))
cargo build --release
```

## Run tests

Moonbeam incorporates Rust unit tests and TypeScript integration tests, which are executed in CI and can also be run locally.

```bash
# Run the Rust unit tests
cargo test
```

> [!IMPORTANT]\
> If you do not have **pnpm**, you can install with: `npm install -g pnpm`

```bash
cd test
pnpm i 
pnpm moonwall test dev_moonbase
```

## Chain IDs

The Ethereum specification describes a numeric Chain Id. The Moonbeam mainnet will have a Chain Id 
of 1284, symbolizing the 1284 milliseconds it takes for a moonbeam to reach Earth.

Moonbeam nodes support a variety of public chains and testnets, each with their respective Chain Ids as follows:

| Network Description                | Chain ID    | Target Relay Runtime |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| Local Parachain TestNet            | 1280        |                      |
| Local Development TestNet          | 1281        |                      |
| Reserved for other TestNets        | 1282 - 1283 |                      |
| Moonbeam                           | 1284        | Polkadot             |
| Moonriver                          | 1285        | Kusama               |
| Moonrock                           | 1286        | Rococo               |
| Moonbase Alpha TestNet             | 1287        | Westend              |
| Reserved for other public networks | 1288 - 1289 |                      |

Note that the runtimes can also be configured to target different relay networks.

## Runtime Architecture

The Moonbeam Runtime, built using FRAME, comprises pallets from Polkadot-SDK, Frontier, and the `pallets/` directory.

From Polkadot-SDK:

- _Utility_: Allows users to use derivative accounts, and batch calls
- _Balances_: Tracks GLMR token balances
- _Sudo_: Allows a privileged account to make arbitrary runtime changes. This will be removed before launch.
- _Timestamp_: On-Chain notion of time
- _Transaction Payment_: Transaction payment (fee) management
- _Randomness Collective Flip_: A (mock) onchain randomness beacon, which will be replaced by parachain randomness by mainnet.
- _ParachainUpgrade_: A helper to perform runtime upgrades on parachains
- _ParachainInfo_: A place to store parachain-relevant constants like parachain id

From Frontier:

- _EVM Chain Id_: A place to store the chain id for each Moonbeam network
- _EVM_: Encapsulates execution logic for an Ethereum Virtual Machine
- _Ethereum_: Ethereum-style data encoding and access for the EVM.


The following pallets are stored in `pallets/`. They are designed for Moonbeam's specific requirements:

- _Author Inherent_: Allows block authors to include their identity in a block via an inherent.
- _Parachain Staking_: Minimal staking pallet that selects collators by total amount at stake

When modifying the git repository for these dependencies, a tool called [diener](https://github.com/bkchr/diener) can be used to replace the git URL and branch for each reference in all `Cargo.toml` files with a single command. This alleviates a lot of the repetitive modifications necessary when changing dependency versions.

## Rustdocs

Rustdocs for the Moonbeam codebase are automatically generated and published
[here](https://moonbeam-foundation.github.io/moonbeam/moonbeam_runtime/index.html).

## Contribute

Moonbeam is open-source under the terms of the GPL3, and we welcome contributions.. Please review our
[CONTRIBUTIONS.md](CONTRIBUTIONS.md) document for more information.

Example of version bumping PR (runtime and node): https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/pull/601/files

Commit message:

Update to newest Moonbeam brand guidelines (#2809)
* added new moonbeam logos

* modified readme

* modified substrate url

* corrections

* jpg banner

* jpg banner

* banner jpg

README.md, after:

# ![Moonbeam](media/Banner.jpg)

# Information

![Tests](https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/workflows/Build/badge.svg)

**An Ethereum compatible [Parachain](https://polkadot.network/technology/) built with the [Polkadot-SDK](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk).**

👉 _Discover the Moonbeam project at [moonbeam.network](https://moonbeam.network)._<br>
👉 _Learn to [use the Moonbeam network](https://docs.moonbeam.network/) with our technical docs._<br>
👉 _Reference our [crate-level docs (rustdocs)](https://moonbeam-foundation.github.io/moonbeam) to contribute._

## Run a Moonbase Alpha (Moonbeam TestNet) Node with Docker

Docker images are published for every tagged release. Learn more with `moonbeam --help`.

```bash
# Join the public testnet
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.37.3 --chain alphanet
```

You can find more detailed instructions to [run a full node in our TestNet](https://docs.moonbeam.network/node-operators/networks/run-a-node/overview/)

## Run a Local Development Node with Docker

Developers who are building dApps to run on Moonbeam, may want a lightweight node to work with
locally. You can quickly set up a single node without a relay chain backing it using the development service.

```bash
# Run a dev service node
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.37.3 --dev
```

For more information, see our detailed instructions to [run a development node](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/networks/moonbeam-dev/)

### Sealing Options

The above command will start the node in instant seal mode. It creates a block when a transaction arrives, similar to Ganache's auto-mine. You can also choose to author blocks at a regular interval, or control authoring manually through the RPC.

```bash
# Author a block every 6 seconds.
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --dev --sealing 6000

# Manually control the block authorship and finality
docker run --network="host" moonbeamfoundation/moonbeam:v0.36.0 --dev --sealing manual
```

### Prefunded Development Addresses

Running Moonbeam in development mode will pre-fund several well-known addresses that (mostly) contain the letters "th" in their names to remind you that they are for ethereum-compatible usage. These addresses are derived from
Substrate's canonical mnemonic: `bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk`

```
# Alith:
- Address: 0xf24FF3a9CF04c71Dbc94D0b566f7A27B94566cac
- PrivKey: 0x5fb92d6e98884f76de468fa3f6278f8807c48bebc13595d45af5bdc4da702133

# Baltathar:
- Address: 0x3Cd0A705a2DC65e5b1E1205896BaA2be8A07c6e0
- PrivKey: 0x8075991ce870b93a8870eca0c0f91913d12f47948ca0fd25b49c6fa7cdbeee8b

# Charleth:
- Address: 0x798d4Ba9baf0064Ec19eB4F0a1a45785ae9D6DFc
- PrivKey: 0x0b6e18cafb6ed99687ec547bd28139cafdd2bffe70e6b688025de6b445aa5c5b

# Dorothy:
- Address: 0x773539d4Ac0e786233D90A233654ccEE26a613D9
- PrivKey: 0x39539ab1876910bbf3a223d84a29e28f1cb4e2e456503e7e91ed39b2e7223d68

# Ethan:
- Address: 0xFf64d3F6efE2317EE2807d223a0Bdc4c0c49dfDB
- PrivKey: 0x7dce9bc8babb68fec1409be38c8e1a52650206a7ed90ff956ae8a6d15eeaaef4

# Faith:
- Address: 0xC0F0f4ab324C46e55D02D0033343B4Be8A55532d
- PrivKey: 0xb9d2ea9a615f3165812e8d44de0d24da9bbd164b65c4f0573e1ce2c8dbd9c8df

# Goliath:
- Address: 0x7BF369283338E12C90514468aa3868A551AB2929
- PrivKey: 0x96b8a38e12e1a31dee1eab2fffdf9d9990045f5b37e44d8cc27766ef294acf18

# Heath:
- Address: 0x931f3600a299fd9B24cEfB3BfF79388D19804BeA
- PrivKey: 0x0d6dcaaef49272a5411896be8ad16c01c35d6f8c18873387b71fbc734759b0ab

# Ida:
- Address: 0xC41C5F1123ECCd5ce233578B2e7ebd5693869d73
- PrivKey: 0x4c42532034540267bf568198ccec4cb822a025da542861fcb146a5fab6433ff8

# Judith:
- Address: 0x2898FE7a42Be376C8BC7AF536A940F7Fd5aDd423
- PrivKey: 0x94c49300a58d576011096bcb006aa06f5a91b34b4383891e8029c21dc39fbb8b
```

Additionally, the prefunded default account for testing purposes is as follows:

```
# Gerald:
- Address: 0x6Be02d1d3665660d22FF9624b7BE0551ee1Ac91b
- PrivKey: 0x99b3c12287537e38c90a9219d4cb074a89a16e9cdb20bf85728ebd97c343e342
```

## Build the Moonbeam Node

To build Moonbeam, a proper Substrate development environment is required. If you're new to working with Substrate-based blockchains, consider starting with the [Getting Started with a Moonbeam Development Node](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/networks/moonbeam-dev/) documentation.

If you need a refresher setting up your Substrate environment, see [Substrate's Getting Started Guide](https://substrate.dev/docs/en/knowledgebase/getting-started/).

Please note that cloning the master branch might result in an unstable build. If you want a stable version, check out the [latest releases](https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/releases).

```bash
# Fetch the code
git clone https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam
cd moonbeam

# Build the node (The first build will be long (~30min))
cargo build --release
```

## Run Tests

Moonbeam incorporates Rust unit tests and TypeScript integration tests, which are executed in CI and can also be run locally.

```bash
# Run the Rust unit tests
cargo test
```

> [!IMPORTANT]\
> If you do not have **pnpm**, you can install with: `npm install -g pnpm`

```bash
cd test
pnpm i 
pnpm moonwall test dev_moonbase
```

## Chain IDs

The Ethereum specification describes a numeric Chain Id. The Moonbeam mainnet will have a Chain Id 
of 1284, symbolizing the 1284 milliseconds it takes for a Moonbeam to reach Earth.

Moonbeam nodes support a variety of public chains and testnets, each with their respective Chain Ids as follows:

| Network Description                | Chain ID    | Target Relay Runtime |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| Local Parachain TestNet            | 1280        |                      |
| Local Development TestNet          | 1281        |                      |
| Reserved for other TestNets        | 1282 - 1283 |                      |
| Moonbeam                           | 1284        | Polkadot             |
| Moonriver                          | 1285        | Kusama               |
| Moonrock                           | 1286        | Rococo               |
| Moonbase Alpha TestNet             | 1287        | Westend              |
| Reserved for other public networks | 1288 - 1289 |                      |

Note that the runtimes can also be configured to target different relay networks.

## Runtime Architecture

The Moonbeam Runtime, built using FRAME, comprises pallets from Polkadot-SDK, Frontier, and the `pallets/` directory.

From Polkadot-SDK:

- _Utility_: Allows users to use derivative accounts, and batch calls
- _Balances_: Tracks GLMR token balances
- _Sudo_: Allows a privileged account to make arbitrary runtime changes. This will be removed before launch.
- _Timestamp_: On-Chain notion of time
- _Transaction Payment_: Transaction payment (fee) management
- _Randomness Collective Flip_: A (mock) onchain randomness beacon, which will be replaced by parachain randomness by mainnet.
- _ParachainUpgrade_: A helper to perform runtime upgrades on parachains
- _ParachainInfo_: A place to store parachain-relevant constants like parachain id

From Frontier:

- _EVM Chain Id_: A place to store the chain id for each Moonbeam network
- _EVM_: Encapsulates execution logic for an Ethereum Virtual Machine
- _Ethereum_: Ethereum-style data encoding and access for the EVM.

The following pallets are stored in `pallets/`. They are designed for Moonbeam's specific requirements:

- _Author Inherent_: Allows block authors to include their identity in a block via an inherent.
- _Parachain Staking_: Minimal staking pallet that selects collators by total amount at stake

When modifying the git repository for these dependencies, a tool called [diener](https://github.com/bkchr/diener) can be used to replace the git URL and branch for each reference in all `Cargo.toml` files with a single command. This alleviates a lot of the repetitive modifications necessary when changing dependency versions.

## Rustdocs

Rustdocs for the Moonbeam codebase are automatically generated and published
[here](https://moonbeam-foundation.github.io/moonbeam/moonbeam_runtime/index.html).

## Contribute

Moonbeam is open-source under the terms of the GPL3, and we welcome contributions.. Please review our
[CONTRIBUTIONS.md](CONTRIBUTIONS.md) document for more information.

Example of version bumping PR (runtime and node): https://github.com/moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam/pull/601/files
